README.md, before:

# Frontend Take-Home Assignment

Welcome to the WorkOS Frontend Take-Home Assignment!

In this exercise, you'll implement the UI for a simple two-tab layout that lists users and roles. You will also add limited functionality to update users and roles.

To get you started, we've included a [Figma design file](https://www.figma.com/design/fx1owLKquaBVfw6kt0Dy94/WorkOS---Frontend-Take-Home-Assignment?node-id=1-40&node-type=canvas&t=MiCSu7HNzqbeCLZ9-0) and a fully functional backend API. Keep in mind, you won’t need to implement all of the functionality implied by the design or backend API. Make sure to focus on the specific tasks outlined below.

Feel free to use any frontend framework and libraries you prefer — there’s no need to build everything from scratch. At WorkOS, we use [Radix Themes](https://www.radix-ui.com/), and it's perfectly fine if you want to leverage similar libraries. Just be ready to explain your decisions, including why you chose certain libraries and how they benefit the project.

If you have any questions, feel free to reach out — we're happy to clarify anything.

## Time Consideration

We value your time! If this assignment takes you more than 8 hours, please submit whatever you have at that point.

Focus on quality. You should be proud of your submission. While the code doesn't need to be 100% production-ready, it should be polished enough for a demo.

Be sure to include a README that outlines what you'd improve or do differently if you had more time.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the Repo**: Start by forking this repository so that you have your own version to work with.
2. **Start the Backend API**:
   - Ensure you have the latest version of Node.js.
   - Run the following commands to install dependencies and start the API:
     ```bash
     cd server
     npm install
     npm run api
     ```
3. **Project Setup**: Add your project under the `client` directory.

## Design Reference

Access the [Figma Design File](https://www.figma.com/design/fx1owLKquaBVfw6kt0Dy94/WorkOS---Frontend-Take-Home-Assignment?node-id=1-40&node-type=canvas&t=MiCSu7HNzqbeCLZ9-0) for the initial design of the "Users" tab.

_**Note:** Please be sure to sign in to Figma. You only are only able to explore properties of the layers, frames, components, etc when signed in._

The design is a starting point — you'll need to fill in some details (e.g., loading states, error states, hover states). The "Roles" tab is not designed, so you'll infer the design based on what is provided for the "Users" tab.

For those portions of the exercise in which the design is given, your implementation should match the design as closely as possible. Attention to detail is important. It is certainly acceptable to deviate from the design if you are confident it is an improvement, but please explain your thinking in your README.

## Backend API

The API provides full CRUD support for users and roles, but you won’t need to use every endpoint.

**Do not alter the backend API**.

The API includes intentional latency and random server errors to simulate real-world scenarios. Ensure your front-end handles these gracefully.

You can adjust the API speed using the `SERVER_SPEED` environment variable:

- **slow**: Simulate slower network (`SERVER_SPEED=slow npm run api`)
- **instant**: Remove latency (`SERVER_SPEED=instant npm run api`)

You can run backend tests by executing `npm run test` in the `server` directory. The test code is located at `server/src/api.test.ts`.

## Tasks Overview

Work on the following tasks in this order. If you can’t complete all tasks, focus on quality rather than quantity.

1. Setup the "Users" and "Roles" tab structure
2. Add the users table
3. Add support for filtering the users table via the "Search" input field
4. Add support for deleting a user via the "more" icon button dropdown menu
5. Add support for viewing all roles in the "Roles" tab
6. Add support for renaming a role in the "Roles" tab
7. [Bonus] Add pagination to the user table

## Evaluation Criteria

We’ll evaluate based on the following:

- **User Experience (UX)**: Clean and intuitive interface.
- **Component Composition**: Modular and reusable components.
- **State Management & Caching**: Efficient handling of data.
- **Error & Loading States**: Graceful handling of API delays and errors.
- **CSS Animations**: Best practices followed for smooth UI interactions.
- **Code Quality**: Clean, well-structured, and maintainable code.
- **Accessibility**: Keyboard navigation and accessibility considerations.

## Submission Guidelines

**Please do not submit a pull request to the WorkOS repo.**

In your forked repository, include a README that explains:

- How to run your project.
- What you would improve or do differently if you had more time.

Once you're ready, share the URL to your GitHub repository with us. Make sure your code runs locally based on the instructions in your README.

Commit message:

Spin up new react app with Vite Use TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier

README.md, after:

# My Notes

use vite to create the project
pros - simple & blazing fast, allows me to pick & choose exactly what dependencies to use e.g. react-router for 
client-side navigation, RTK Query for data fetching, etc.
cons - takes a little longer to set up vs. something more fully-featured like remix or next

What would I do differently next time? Use Remix - I like their focus on web fundamentals and the fact that 
react-router is built-in. It would also allow us to render pages on the server, if we decide that's optimal for 
performance or SEO reasons. 

# Frontend Take-Home Assignment

Welcome to the WorkOS Frontend Take-Home Assignment!

In this exercise, you'll implement the UI for a simple two-tab layout that lists users and roles. You will also add limited functionality to update users and roles.

To get you started, we've included a [Figma design file](https://www.figma.com/design/fx1owLKquaBVfw6kt0Dy94/WorkOS---Frontend-Take-Home-Assignment?node-id=1-40&node-type=canvas&t=MiCSu7HNzqbeCLZ9-0) and a fully functional backend API. Keep in mind, you won’t need to implement all of the functionality implied by the design or backend API. Make sure to focus on the specific tasks outlined below.

Feel free to use any frontend framework and libraries you prefer — there’s no need to build everything from scratch. At WorkOS, we use [Radix Themes](https://www.radix-ui.com/), and it's perfectly fine if you want to leverage similar libraries. Just be ready to explain your decisions, including why you chose certain libraries and how they benefit the project.

If you have any questions, feel free to reach out — we're happy to clarify anything.

## Time Consideration

We value your time! If this assignment takes you more than 8 hours, please submit whatever you have at that point.

Focus on quality. You should be proud of your submission. While the code doesn't need to be 100% production-ready, it should be polished enough for a demo.

Be sure to include a README that outlines what you'd improve or do differently if you had more time.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the Repo**: Start by forking this repository so that you have your own version to work with.
2. **Start the Backend API**:
   - Ensure you have the latest version of Node.js.
   - Run the following commands to install dependencies and start the API:
     ```bash
     cd server
     npm install
     npm run api
     ```
3. **Project Setup**: Add your project under the `client` directory.

## Design Reference

Access the [Figma Design File](https://www.figma.com/design/fx1owLKquaBVfw6kt0Dy94/WorkOS---Frontend-Take-Home-Assignment?node-id=1-40&node-type=canvas&t=MiCSu7HNzqbeCLZ9-0) for the initial design of the "Users" tab.

_**Note:** Please be sure to sign in to Figma. You only are only able to explore properties of the layers, frames, components, etc when signed in._

The design is a starting point — you'll need to fill in some details (e.g., loading states, error states, hover states). The "Roles" tab is not designed, so you'll infer the design based on what is provided for the "Users" tab.

For those portions of the exercise in which the design is given, your implementation should match the design as closely as possible. Attention to detail is important. It is certainly acceptable to deviate from the design if you are confident it is an improvement, but please explain your thinking in your README.

## Backend API

The API provides full CRUD support for users and roles, but you won’t need to use every endpoint.

**Do not alter the backend API**.

The API includes intentional latency and random server errors to simulate real-world scenarios. Ensure your front-end handles these gracefully.

You can adjust the API speed using the `SERVER_SPEED` environment variable:

- **slow**: Simulate slower network (`SERVER_SPEED=slow npm run api`)
- **instant**: Remove latency (`SERVER_SPEED=instant npm run api`)

You can run backend tests by executing `npm run test` in the `server` directory. The test code is located at `server/src/api.test.ts`.

## Tasks Overview

Work on the following tasks in this order. If you can’t complete all tasks, focus on quality rather than quantity.

1. Setup the "Users" and "Roles" tab structure
2. Add the users table
3. Add support for filtering the users table via the "Search" input field
4. Add support for deleting a user via the "more" icon button dropdown menu
5. Add support for viewing all roles in the "Roles" tab
6. Add support for renaming a role in the "Roles" tab
7. [Bonus] Add pagination to the user table

## Evaluation Criteria

We’ll evaluate based on the following:

- **User Experience (UX)**: Clean and intuitive interface.
- **Component Composition**: Modular and reusable components.
- **State Management & Caching**: Efficient handling of data.
- **Error & Loading States**: Graceful handling of API delays and errors.
- **CSS Animations**: Best practices followed for smooth UI interactions.
- **Code Quality**: Clean, well-structured, and maintainable code.
- **Accessibility**: Keyboard navigation and accessibility considerations.

## Submission Guidelines

**Please do not submit a pull request to the WorkOS repo.**

In your forked repository, include a README that explains:

- How to run your project.
- What you would improve or do differently if you had more time.

Once you're ready, share the URL to your GitHub repository with us. Make sure your code runs locally based on the instructions in your README.
